[Music]
all right so first thing I did when I
got back from Australia was start to
catch up on the stuff that I missed and
I put my SIM card in the pixel fold the
pixel 9 Pro fold and I was impressed
really maybe I shouldn't have been so
impressed given how good the other pixel
99's already are but it's a folding
phone folding phones are hard but the
second generation of anything tells you
a lot and even though this is called the
pixel 99 Pro phone F it's a second one
uh the first pixel fold was last year
and it was solid it was one of my
favorite foldables to use closed with
that passport style aspect ratio but it
had a number of trade-offs with its
price this one makes some big strides
forward so let me just start with the
design like there was a lot of chatter
about this camera bump on the back just
because of the way it looks which is
yeah it's kind of weird but personally
this hasn't bothered me it's not like
the biggest wobbler I wish it was wider
like the other pixels I wish it looked
more con consistent like the pixel 9 and
9 Pro but you don't have to look at it
much I'm guessing it looks like this
just because of the complicated
internals of a folding phone but then
the rest of the design around this thing
is pretty nice it is much thinner first
of all and they've flattened the sides
all the way around so it's this more
modern like squared off shape a lot of
other flagships have now the funny thing
is the rounded sides from last year were
actually easier to just pry open for a
folding phone so you'll notice that if
you use both phones back to back but
this isn't the end of the world and then
there's a bunch of other refinements too
the hinge is a bit smaller the sides are
now uh sort of matte finish instead of
glossy so now you have matte sides and a
soft touch back and overall it just
feels much closer to a normal slab when
it's closed it's not fully there like
we're not quite fooling anybody yet but
it's a little over 10 mm thick folded
and there are a lot of other phones from
the past year that are around that
number the main change though definitely
is that it's not that smaller passport
size anymore this is a full-on
like maxed out Flagship size 6.3 in
1080P Dynamic 120 HZ AMOLED display it's
big the last one is more reachable for
sure now it's much more like the OnePlus
open sized so it's it's right around the
maximum of actually being able to use
the whole screen with one hand I mean
your mileage may vary of course
depending on the size of your hands but
yeah there's also still real bezels all
the way around the screen and it kind of
pushes it away from the hinge so it's a
off center but in general I still find
it very usable and it just feels more
like a regular phone than ever before
which I think is a win I really like
this cover screen and then when you open
it up that's when the benefits of being
taller really start to pay off cuz now
you go from a 7.6 in screen to a
slightly narrower but taller 8 in screen
that's basically now a square and the
screen is way better it's up to 2700
nits it's nice and bright it is actually
ltpo when the cover screen is not for
some reason
and the bezels have tremendously
improved from the first folding pixel so
they're still a little thick sure but
now they're nicely even all the way
around and there's a hole punch cut out
in the corner now instead of the selfie
camera on the thick bezel and just look
how thin that is like it's barely
thicker than the USBC Port this this
would have been a crazy sentence just a
few short years ago but using this phone
I I wager almost everything about the
hardware of this Google phone is at or
above average which it's crazy it's like
the harder the part is to make the the
better and more above average they are
like this new hinge is nice and smooth
and the phone opens and closes in a
really satisfying way and it unfolds all
the way flat easily unlike last year's
phone the crease through the middle is
you know average at worst but very easy
to look past when you're actually
looking that content on the screen and
uh they fit in a 4650 mAh battery inside
which again is a little above average
for foldables even though it's actually
slightly less than last year the
speakers in this thin body are very good
and full uh the water resistance is here
it's ipx8 the flatter fingerprint reader
is easy and quick and fast and just this
Hardware feels actually more deserving
of the word Pro than ever before so you
know they renamed the phone it has Pro
in the name now but feels like it
deserves it but also little things like
the outer display not being ltpo feel
weird considering that's the one that
does the always on thing that's the one
you really want to be ltpo and it also
doesn't charge particularly fast and
there's no ch2 so the phone has this
lower than normal wireless charging coil
that can be kind of annoying to line up
and doesn't work on certain Chargers
which may feel like nitpicking but hey
when it's an $1,800 phone you are
definitely allowed to nitpick overall
though design- wise I really feel like
they got a lot of stuff right so yeah it
reminds me of the OnePlus open from last
year which won my best folding phone of
the year but then this one is a pixel
and this pixel software experience ends
up being what differentiates it over a
lot of other folding phone options out
there because yeah there are totally
more flashy foldables with more advanced
Hardware from Vivo and xiaomi and
there's these razor thin pieces of
Hardware with head turning specs but if
I'm being honest the software on those
typically isn't nearly as good so here
you basically have all the same features
as the rest of the pixel 9 Flagship
lineup which is great it's it's call
screening it's the the pixel weather app
it's all the new stuff basically
everything except the thermometer app
and that's fine so Gemini is actually
getting good like I said in the nine
review and I'm Still Loving Circle to
search although on this inner screen you
got to be slightly more careful because
the slight difference between hold to
Circle to search and the tiny swipe to
bring up the dock can kind of take some
getting used to but then there's also
all the foldable optimizations the two
column layouts for so many pieces of
Android the notification
the settings app so many other first
party apps and I've just been generally
loving the larger size screen because it
feels like multitasking and having
multiple apps open at once or
specifically something I do a lot which
is picture in picture with a small
YouTube video window somewhere on the
screen but I'm reading an article or
doing something else in a full-size
window all of that is better on this
phone than last year and this is all
Android 14 which is the same as all the
other new pixels but I put Android 15
beta on my old pixel fold and there are
some more folding optimizations it's
just it's hopefully coming soon and they
promise seven years of software updates
on Pixel 9 which is pretty Elite so I've
said a lot of nice things about this
phone but going into this before I even
put my SIM card in it because I'd read
other people's coverage and seen stuff
about this phone is I knew that there
would be basically two main downsides to
look out for to keep an eye on and those
are the tensor chip being underpowered
and the downgraded camera system so okay
it's a pixel so let's just start with
the cameras basically my findings are
yes they are smaller sensors than the
main pixels and yes they are worse but
they're not horrible like they're not
that much worse that it's a bad camera
now basically you can see the style of
the photos is the same and it's it's
contrasty it's high dynamic range but
it's not as sharp is my main observation
and this gets exaggerated as the
conditions get worse so in lower light
the photos get softer and lack details
faster as these smaller sensors start to
fight for light more so it feels on par
with like a pixel Flagship but from a
few years ago like a pixel 7 Pro now
that's about it and that's always been
one of the compromises of these high-end
folding phones is you know they give you
all the software features of the other
phones but for ,7 $1,800 you would also
hope for the maximum quality but they
can't fit all of the same camera sensors
in a phone that has all this other
hardware and a hinge and everything like
that so if you take a lot of pictures
and you're into phones spe specifically
for that that might be a tough pill to
swallow but if you're not if you buy it
for other reasons and you're not a huge
camer person then you may be willing to
overlook that me personally I rely too
much on photos and videos for my phone
so that's tough for me but the other
downside is this tensor chip and this is
another nuanced one see Google's tensor
chip has never been best in its class
power-wise or efficiency wise I'd argue
it's been good enough for the phones
it's been in but if you wanted to do
like high-end gaming or if you wanted a
really extended shelf life for more than
a few years or really amazing battery
life like tensor is holding these phones
back and so people have been trying to
figure out all right when is Google
going to catch up and get on par with
like the Qualcomm level Flagship chips
and the tensor G4 in the pixel 9 line of
phones including this phone is solid and
it's paired with 16 gigs of ram in this
phone which is awesome and obviously
helps with the AI models but also
running the rest of the phone but it's
not not amazing and it really makes you
wonder like okay it's promised seven
years of software updates but will the
phone last that long like these are real
questions but word on the street is next
gen next tensor chip allegedly maybe is
going to be the one that finally goes
from being designed by Google and
manufactured by Samsung to the first
fully custom Google chip with 3
nanometers and everything and that could
be the huge jump that this needs that
could be a big Power jump a big
efficiency jump but that's just a rumor
so I would say that if you hear that and
get excited about that which let's be
honest a lot of the customer base for a
$2,000 folding phone actually does care
about that stuff then you should
probably wait I actually feel like you
should wait and this is it's weird to
say that this is both one of the best
folding phones I've ever used and you
should probably wait just because you
don't want to spend this much and then
regret your purchase next year but if
that doesn't speak to you honestly this
phone as it exists today it feels great
it looks great it's smooth the battery
life for me is consistently like 6 hours
of screen on time with mostly small
screen activities but then the sort of
10% of the time that I actually open it
and do a lot more big screen use then
you can eat into the battery a bit more
but I just feel like I am productive
when I have this phone like it really
does accomplish the goal of feeling like
I have two phones the regular siiz
Flagship when it's close closed and then
the mini tablet ready to go at any time
for the multicolumn layouts the
multitasking and big productivity apps
for all that stuff that I really sit
down and get stuff done on my phone for
this thing has been awesome oh and also
speaking of ready to go at any time I
just wanted to shout out that the new
Ridge wallet that I designed is finally
here and it is a full grain leather soft
wallet and it's sick RFID blocking
lightweight two pockets with easy access
you can kind of just pop them up from
the front front or use your finger to
Glide them up from the back fits up to
around eight cards you could put cash in
it if you want to also it's everything
you need and nothing you don't I'll link
it below if you want to check it out I'm
really proud of it but yeah look if
you're not a foldable person then this
phone may not convince you like it's the
same dimensions the same functionality
roughly like it's not a game changer by
any means but if you are a foldable
person this phone has been awesome to
use like I've really enjoyed the fact
that it really feels like a full-on
Flagship on the front and feels like a
mini tablet when I want one two phones
in one that's the ideal foldable phone
for me and uh yeah this is my favorite
Flagship foldable ever to come out so
there you have it hopefully Android 15
soon thanks for watching catch you in
the next one peace